These are research or we call it, say, the feedback,
is imperative, but it only tells half the story.
You're constricted by the sample size of how many users you can
physically interview or gather qualitative feedback from.
A user may describe their pain with existing product but you need to leverage
data to understand how prevalent that pain actually is throughout the user base at large.
Depending on the size and nature of the company,
product managers may have access to data scientists to help them out with their analyses.
If you don't, you have to do that analyses yourself.
If you do, data science resources are oftentimes limited,
and you have to be strategic on what you want data scientists to focus on.
You should take a self service approach to product analytics so that your data scientists
have more focus on deep statistical analyses in machine learning algorithm development.
Here's an example scenario of what you will miss if you do not analyze the data.
Say, you are PM for a personal finance app where users can aggregate
their ongoing expenses and income
into an intuitive dashboard for monitoring their budget.
Users sometimes tend to not be too vocal about their inefficiencies,
rather just accepting them for what they are.
Let's say you notice your users manually inputting in data rather
than hooking up an integration with one of your existing banking partners.
You parse through the strings of what the titles are for
these data inputs and you notice that the top value is Robin Hood.
Upon further investigation, you realize that Robin Hood is not
a current integration partner and you'll prioritize this to the top of your road map.